and then he's a great civic leader and
they've been very helpful through this
situation also thank you for allowing us
to do the antibody testing at Wegmans
that's been very very helpful and we
thank you for everything you've done
and Nicole Wegman thank you pleasure
thank you for being on our New York
forward Advisory Board to help us going
forward and find our way through this
let's give you an update on where we are
today the total number of
hospitalizations is down you see that
curve coming down you see that mountain
that we went up now we're on the other
side of the mountain you start to see
the shape of the mountain unfortunately
the decline from the mountain is not as
steep as the incline right and the big
question for us in New York and and
every state of course the nation has
been how fast and how low does that
decline go right how fast does the
decline actually happen and what is the
lowest level that the decline will reach
unfortunately you see that we were
shaped we were hoping for a quick up
plateau at the top which is what they
talked about but a fast decline you see
the the climb is again not as steep as
the incline but it is a decline and
that's good news the net change in total
hospitalizations is is down and that
change in intubations is down and that's
always good news when a person is it
intubated roughly 80% of the times there
is not a good outcome so the fact that
the intubations is down is a good is
good news and then the other end is how
many new cases are coming in the door
every day how many new diagnoses in
kovat cases and that number is also
declining so not only are the number of
people in hospitals coming down but the
number of new cases coming in the door
is down and that's good news because it
had plateaued at about 900 statewide for
a few days but this number is is down at
700 and that's a good number I would
take this with a grain of salt as they
say because this is reporting from
yesterday which was a Sunday and
sometimes we get different results on
the weekend remember this whole
reporting system is just been put in
place this never happened before this is
now every hospital in the state
reporting every day for the first time
so it's a plus or minus across the board
this is the number that haunts me every
day and this number is not declining
anywhere nearly as fast as we would like
to see it decline still 226 New Yorkers
who passed away and so we don't become
immune we talk about these numbers
it's 226 Families right that's 226 wives
or brothers or sisters or children that
are now suffering the loss of a loved
one so that we remember them in our
thoughts and our prayers people are all
talking about reopening which we should
be talking about this is not a
sustainable situation close down
everything close down the economy lock
yourself in the home you can do it for a
short period of time but you can't do it
forever but reopening is more difficult
than the closed down the closed down was
relatively simple right you go into the
basement you throw the big power switch
and everything just goes down close the
businesses stay at home it was a blunt
operation and when that was done all
across the country just stop everything
now
when you go to restart the reopening now
knowing what we know it's more nuanced
you have to be more careful and again no
one has done this before no one has been
here before so first start by learning
the lessons that we did learn through
this experience and second let's be
smart about what we do and I get the
emotion and I get the impatience and I
get the anxiety we all feel it when I
say this situation is unsustainable its
unsustainable on many levels its
unsustainable economically its
unsustainable personally a lot of
anxiety is now all through our community
we see it in increased alcoholism
increased substance abuse increased
domestic violence so this is a very very
difficult period and people want to move
on yes but let's be smart about what we
do and let's learn the lessons one of
the lessons is we have never been here
before and we didn't really know what
was going on CDC releases a report and
the last week that says the virus was
actually coming to the East Coast from
Europe everybody was looking at China
for all those months China China China
China yeah China was last November
December the virus migrated from China
while we were all staring at China and
with the Europe and the strain that came
to the United States came from Europe we
had people in the airports stopping
people from China testing people from
China the federal government did a lot
of testing a lot of screening people
getting off planes from China
yeah but meaning other people from
Europe were walking right past them and
that's where the strain came from that
was infecting this area and that's what
the CDC just learned last week and this
is going back to
you were right on one of the most study
topics ever again just learn the lessons
of what happened you now add that piece
of information on the Europe trips and
then you see the number of flights that
came from Europe during that time where
they landed and now you it explains why
you've seen the outbreak in Chicago that
you've seen why you've seen the number
of cases in New York because yes the
flights were landing here people were
coming from Italy and UK and from
European countries and nobody thought to
screen them nobody was on guard and you
add that to the density of New York
especially in New York City and that
virus just took off okay
we didn't know we didn't know now we do
we also couldn't look back in history
you look at that 1918 flu pandemic that
they talk about the places that opened
too soon so that flu come right back and
by the way that flu was not one wave
that was three waves first wave second
way of third wave second wave was worse
than the first wave and you see watch
the other countries that went through
this before us right we're not the first
one down the chute there were other
countries that went down before us you
see they wanted to reopen also they were
feeling the pressure on reopening and
you study those cases and you see that
you've reopened too soon or you reopen
unintelligently and you can then have an
immediate backlash and that's not
speculation that is looking at other
countries and look at what what has
happened around the world and then you
talk to the experts who know listen to
what they're saying
dr. pouchy who I think is one of the
best voices and minds on this dr. Falchi
has been through this in in different
iterations he was one of the
pioneers on the HIV virus and AIDS and
he says we could be in for a bad fall
and a bad winter could be why cuz he
doesn't know he's not sure but could be
for a bad fall or bad winter
okay so put all of this in the in the
equation and then also acknowledge and
actualize that the truth is that nobody
knows what happens next and when it
happens well how can that be that nobody
knows we're so sophisticated we have so
much intelligence we have so many
experts this is the United States of
America how can it be that no one knows
because no one knows I speak to the best
experts globally globally and nobody can
tell you for sure now experts we look to
experts and we expect them to know so we
push them to no answer the question
tell me when what's going to happen in
September what's going to happen in
December sometimes the answer is I don't
know sometimes that's the honest answer
I was talking to my daughter's last
night and they said you know you say at
your briefings I don't know how can you
say that first I'm not really sure they
watch my briefings but they're right
sometimes I say I don't know why because
I don't know and if you don't know say
you don't know and I speak again to the
best minds in this country the best
minds around the globe and they don't
know so if you don't know say you don't
know it doesn't mean you're not smart no
reason to get defensive I don't know
when you know what you don't know and
admit it it will actually keep you safe
my daughters don't quite agree with this
yet but I haven't given up on the
concept know what you don't know know
when you don't know what the
future holds you can be safe because
then you can prepare for different
possibilities and that's where we are we
don't know but we will be prepared for
all possibilities so reopening charter
course with the best information you
have learning from the lessons you have
but be able to correct that course
depending on what happens which means
don't act emotionally don't act because
I feel this I feel that because someone
said well other states are opening so
we'll you must be able to open if other
states are open if we get the anecdotal
forget the atmospherics forget the
environment don't forget the emotional
look at the data look at the
measurements look at the science follow
the facts and that's what we've done
here from day one
there is no gut instinct this is look at
the data look at their science look at
the metrics move forward measuring what
you can and what you know and then be
prepared to adjust well I want
specificity I want to know for sure you
don't but there's liberation in knowing
that so let's do this intelligently
based on metrics and we'll see what
happens and we'll adjust to whatever
happens well what does that mean our
metrics you can measure this and we have
to measure this you look at that
percentage and the rate of
hospitalizations which we have right
that's the chart that goes up and down
you watch that hospitalization rate do
your diagnostic testing so you know how
many people are testing positive and you
can watch that rate going up or down or
flat do the contract tracing so after
the testing you follow up and you do
that contact tracing and you are then
reducing the infection spread by
isolating the positives if you do those
things you
will control the rate of transmission of
the virus which is everything
nobody says you're going to eliminate
the virus in the short term no body but
you can control the rate of transmission
and if you can control the rate of
transmission you can control the rate of
transmission from becoming an outbreak
or an epidemic or overwhelming your
Public Health System that is the best
you can do so control the rate of
transmission to what they call one point
one or less one point one is every
person infects one point one other
people more than one other person if
you're doing that that is an outbreak
that means it's going to increase
exponentially and it's going to be out
of control as long as your rate of
transmission is manageable and low then
reopen your businesses and reopen the
businesses in phases so you're
increasing that activity level while
you're watching the rate of transmission
rate of transmission goes up stop the
reopening close the valve close the
valve right away so reopen businesses do
it in phases and watch that rate of
transmission it gets over one point one
stop everything immediately that's where
the other countries wound up they
started to reopen they exceeded the one
point one it became an outbreak again
they had to slow down rather than
starting and stopping you'd rather have
a controlled start so you don't have to
stop right and that's what you learn
from the other countries you reopen too
fast then you have to stop and nobody
wants to have gone through all of this
and then start just to stop again well
how does that happen first of all it's
not going to happen statewide this state
has different regions which are in much
different situations than other regions
in this state and rather than wait for
the whole
state to be ready reopen on a regional
basis if upstate has to wait for
downstate to be ready they're gonna be
waiting a long time
so analyze the situation on a regional
basis okay and you look at a region on
four measures the number of new
infections your health care capacity if
the infections goes too high you
overwhelm your health system now your
Italy with people on Gurney's in the
hallway because your hospital system
can't handle it do your diagnostic
testing so you're seeing how the
infection is increasing or decreasing
and do the contact tracing have that
system in place so when you test and you
find the positive you trace the contacts
from that positive person and you're
isolating them to bring down the rate
and you do that on a regional basis that
system has to be in place for a regional
basis how do you start when can I start
reopening we look at guidelines from the
CDC which say a region has to have at
least 14 days of decline in total
hospitalizations and death on a three
day rolling average so you take a 3 day
average you have to have 14 days of
decline you can't have more than 15 new
total cases or 5 new deaths on a 3 day
rolling average this is telling you that
you're basically at a plateau level that
you can actually start to reopen then
you're watching the rate of infection
and the spread of the infection and the
benchmark there is fewer than two new
covered patients per 100,000 residents
right it's based on your population to
account for the variance in the
different sizes of regions across the
they then anticipate protect yourself
from all possibilities well what if we
have a surge again never fill your
hospitals to more than 70% capacity
leave 30 percent in case you have a
surge remember this virus is tricky the
rate of infection per a person who gets
infected today shows up in the hospital
10 days from today or two weeks from
today
so that infection rate goes up you don't
feel it for two weeks there's a lag to
it you want to make sure you have 30% of
the hospital beds available in case you
have that surge also learn the lessons
from before every hospital has to have
90 days of PPE
for that Hospital at the rate that they
have been using it during covert we
cannot have another mad scramble where
nurses and doctors don't have downs and
masks etc because the hospitals don't
have the necessary stockpile so make
sure every hospital has the stockpile on
the testing we have done really
remarkable work on testing 1 million New
Yorkers have now been tested believe it
or not
and the CDC coronavirus task force for
the White House recommends that for a
region to reopen you have 30 tests for
every 1000 residents ready to go so what
testing capacity do we need for a region
to reopen you have to be prepared to do
30 tests for every 1000 residents New
York is doing more tests than any
country in the state by far New York is
doing more tests than any country on the
globe
per capita so we're way ahead and
testing but it doesn't matter what we're
doing statewide to open a region that
region has to have a testing capacity of
30 per 1000 the National Guard has been
doing a great job for us in putting
together testing kits and distributing
testing kits and we want to thank them
very much but we have to have those
tests and we have to have what they call
tracers contact tracers in place and
Mayor Bloomberg has been very helpful
former mayor of New York City in putting
together this tracing system this has
never existed before on the scale a
group of people who literally trace
contacts from a person who's positive
who did you have dinner with last night
who did you have dinner with two nights
ago who might you have been in contact
with and then contacting those people to
say to you have any symptoms if you do
you should know you were with John Smith
John Smith tested positive he said he
went to dinner with you you should be on
alert that old tracing system has never
been done not only in this state but in
this country so this that all has to be
set up and it has to be done
once that is all done then you can talk
about reopening businesses well which
businesses do we open first you open
businesses first that are most essential
and pose the lowest risk okay most
essential and the lowest risk phase one
we're talking about construction
manufacturing and select retail with
curbside pickup they are the most
essential with the lowest risk second
phase professional services retail the
administrative support real estate third
phase restaurant food services
combination forth arts entertainment
recreation education
remember density is not your friend here
large gatherings are not your friend
that's where the virus tends to spread
that's why those situations would be
down at the end and then we need
businesses to also really imagine how
they're going to do business and get
ready to protect their workforce to
change their physical environment to the
extent they need to and to change their
processes to make sure people can
socially distance people remain at a
safe in a safe environment and that's
going to be up to businesses to come up
with ways to reconfigure their workplace
and their processes to make this work
and that's business by business
government can say these are the
standards but a business is going to
have to figure out how to do that when
you look at this state there are some
regions that right now by the numbers
pose a lower risk some that pose a
higher risk we can tell you by region
right now of those criteria that we went
through which ones are in place for
which region so which ones have the
right hospitalization the right testing
regimen the right contract contact
tracing regimen and which ones still
have work to do in those areas and this
is going to be region by region and each
region has to put together the leaders
in those respective areas who put
together this system and monitor this
system literally on a daily basis so
they're getting all that import all
those specifics all that data and then
day by day they're making a decision as
to how to proceed with reopening based
on
the data based on the facts and that'll
be a little different for every region
in the state may 15th is when the
statewide pause order PA USC not PA WS
the pause order the pause order was
stopped all businesses stay at home that
expires on may 15th may 15th regions can
start to reopen and do their own
analysis but these are the facts that
they have to have in place to do it
start now don't wait to May 15th
don't call me up on May 15th and say
well the pause order expired I want to
open because I'm gonna ask you the
questions I just asked I just presented
do you have a healthcare system in place
is your health system ready can your
hospitals handle it do you have testing
in place the AB tracing in place have
you talked to the businesses about how
they're going to reopen so we have a
couple of weeks but the this is what
local leaders this is what a community
has to deal with to reopen safely and
intelligently in my opinion this can't
just be we want to get out of the house
we're going no let's be smart let's be
intelligent let's learn from the past
let's do it based on facts you know we
are at a different time in place
government is fundamentally in a
different position than it was just a
couple of months ago this is for real
now right government politics it's not
about optics it's not about celebrities
not about press releases it's not about
what I put on Instagram yesterday this
is about government leaders performance
their expertise this is a situation
where their competence and their ability
can be the difference between life and
death literally and what the governments
have done federal state local what we've
done in this state has literally saved
lives
we reduced all the projected
hospitalization rates dramatically by
about a hundred thousand New Yorkers one
hundred thousand fewer New Yorkers were
hospitalized than they predicted 100,000
think about that if we had 100 thousand
more people in our hospital system first
of all our hospital system would have
collapsed
if the projections were true if we
didn't change those projections and we
literally saved lives how many of those
100,000 would have been hospitalized and
would have died so we've done great work
at a tremendous cost and tremendous
hardship but we've done great work we
just have to remain vigilant and smart
and competent going forward and that's
what New York tough means New York tough
means we're tough but we're smart were
disciplined we're unified and we are
loving and it's the love of community
and love of each other and respect for
each other which is what has gotten us
through this and we'll continue to thank
you very much for taking the time to be
here thank you for the social distancing
questions for myself or any of my
colleagues
mask-wearing I said look I believe this
is the this is a time for sort of honest
straightforward talk I said that I think
it's disrespectful of people not to wear
masks I mean think about it you see all
these commercials on TV we thank you to
our heroes thank you to the nurses thank
you to the doctors thank you to the
Transit workers thank you to the police
officers and we should be thankful right
they went to work so all of us could
stay safe and go home the look the least
gratitude you can show is at least wear
the mask so you don't infect more people
who place more of a burden on the
hospitals and the nurses and the doctors
who were all saying thank you for your
great service you really want to say
thank you then respect them and respect
their job and wear the mask so you don't
infect people well I don't want to wear
a mask it's not that big a deal and by
the way you don't wear a mask for
yourself you wear a mask to protect me
I wear a mask to protect you we owe each
other a certain amount of reasonableness
and respect in society and I owe you
that level of respect that if I'm sick I
should wear a mask local governments
have the ability to enforce and to
penalize that's up to local governments
but do I think local government should
be enforcing it and should there be
sanctions yes yes because it is a public
health emergency you know this is not
just do me a favor this is a public
health emergency and it's a statewide
order that I put in place that I'm proud
of and local governments have the
responsibility to enforce it and part of
their right
the illegal right is they can have a
penalty or a sanction that they impose
so Rochester can have one penalty you
know you can be appropriate to the to
the community New York cities in a
different situation but yeah I think
local government should enforce it and I
think there should be a penalty cuz you
could literally literally kill someone
you could literally kill someone because
you didn't want to wear a mask I mean
how how cruel and irresponsible would
that be yes yes you don't have to worry
no one said wear a mask all the time
right
wear a mask if you may be in a situation
where you can't socially distance you go
for a walk in the woods you don't have
to be wearing a mask you come to a point
even from your walk in the woods where
you're going to be in a parking lot or
there's an entrance and an exit and you
may run into other people wear the mask
you can have the mask down when you're
walking in the woods but now you see
someone coming the other way I'm gonna
pass by the other person you put the
mask on I mean it's it's the least that
we can do right everyone is killing
themselves people are working 24 hours a
day show some respect
show some basic modicum of respect
yeah putting putting all of these new
systems in place is an incredible task
and you know Society now we have a
temptation to blame well who's to blame
who's the blame nobody is to blame that
we don't have testing capacity for
millions of Americans we've never done
this before
our testing system was basically for the
flu test or strep or some other blood
test when the doctor would send you to a
lab to get a blood test
we never had a testing system in this
nation that could do this volume so this
whole thing is the scramble and it was a
scramble between the federal government
in the States who's supposed to do it
who's responsible I had a good meeting
with the president a while back where we
sat down and we said look the states
controlled the labs we have about 300
labs in in New York State we regulate
them the state should be responsible for
what they can do and we need the federal
government to help where they can the
supply chain issue of reagents
manufacturing etc that is an
international supply chain ironically so
much of this stuff comes from China it's
like incredible on the testing the
reagents the chemicals as well as the
PPE when we were looking for masks and
gowns everything was in China but the
federal government has assumed the
responsibility of that international
supply chain the reagents etc the states
sort of take over at the state line but
that supply has increased and we are
distributing it and as you saw we're
doing more testing than any other state
or any other country per capita so we're
coming online very very quickly but we
still have more to do
yeah they're going to get guidance on
what the what plan they need to reopen
schools which is basically the analog to
what a business needs right I want to
reopen my manufacturing company okay how
do you do it and keep people six feet
apart how do you do it in the cafeteria
how do you do it in the transport
how do you run your business in a way
that's going to now meet these social
distancing guidelines same thing for a
school part of the issue for our school
was just the the gatherings in the
school you have 25 students in a class
how do you put 25 students in a class
and there's six feet apart I mean look
at this space right even these press
conferences you need for 20 people you
need you know a tremendous sized room
how how would you do that in the school
how do you socially distance students do
you need more classrooms which means
they need more teachers how do you serve
lunch what do you do about the bus how
do you keep fewer students on the bus so
those kinds of details have to be in the
reopening plan they'll get guidance on
that but it's going to be easier said
than done especially for a school
because think about it the problem is
the gathering a school is a gathering
that's what it is
yeah look I get the whole liber8
movement there's no reason for a closing
of anything just open everything up and
let everybody go do whatever they want
to do I get that argument I hear it I
understand it I'm sympathetic to it you
know everybody wants out I also know the
facts of what has happened to the places
have who have done that and what you
suggest that was all those countries
that saw saw a spike in the number of
cases right afterwards saw a spike in
the infection rate sort of spike in the
hospitalizations or spike in the number
of deaths and I would like to see as few
New Yorkers pass away as possible so yes
people want to get out on the other hand
we want to do it in a responsible way
and that's the whole question
no 80 and 90% of us don't get the
coronavirus nobody has gotten the
coronavirus before some people say well
this is like a flu yeah it's not like a
flu even eighty ninety percent of us
don't get the flu right but this is a
different beast that we're dealing with
and we learned that the hard way
you don't hear anyone saying anymore
this is like the flu right that was back
in January February that was before we
had 18,000 people in our hospitals in
New York this is not a flu
let's take one more yes
yeah this is a national problem we have
unemployment systems states run the
unemployment system in this case we have
a lot of federal benefits that are
running through the unemployment system
the unemployment system was set up with
phone operators and a website to handle
like thousands of calls thousands of
input we now have millions of inputs it
is overwhelmed every state unemployment
website office etc I talked to all the
governor's on these conference calls
they're all struggling to deal with a
number of unemployment claims federal
government then just passed a piece of
legislation several weeks ago that had
additional benefits for people which
then required new signups and then it
broke more people to the websites etc we
have hired over 3,000 people to actually
run our unemployment service our website
and to handle the telephones 3,000
people which is just incredible just for
the unemployment line and we've made
great progress there is still for some
people a delay because you do have to
document and certify that the person is
eligible you know just can't be just if
somebody calls up and you Bob Duffy
calls and you say okay and you send them
a check federal law and common sense
requires that you affirm certain
information the good news is even if
there's a delay on the website it
doesn't cost you any money when you get
the check the check is from the date of
your eligibility even though the website
can be a pain in the neck to deal with
but I'll ask Melissa
DeRosa who has been overseeing this if
she has an update on the unemployment
site and this is actually very important
in commissioner Reardon is gonna do a
call later today to brief out on the
latest what we found in the last several
days is that a lot of the people who are
in pending
this have not gone on and certified
their unemployment status which is a
separate process from going through the
application so you file the application
you do the phonecall you process through
but then you have to go into the website
into your account and certify that
you're unemployed and that's something
you have to do every week by Saturday so
you can either do it on your website
account or you can call there's two
separate numbers for unemployment
insurance it's eight eight eight five
eight one five eight one two and four
pandemic unemployment insurance it's
eight three three three two four OH
three six six and you have to do that
every single week and certify that you
are still unemployed and eligible to
work and then they process that
information so we sent out 90,000 emails
over the weekend to a batch of people we
identified that we're stuck in that
pending status because of that and as I
said Commissioner Reardon is gonna be
doing a more detailed call this
afternoon to continue to get this
information out to the public but that
is the number one thing that I would
recommend to those people who are still
sitting in pending status yes priority
status and just to punctuate one other
thing the governor said about the flu
the one big difference between corona
virus and the flu is that the flu has a
vaccine so for those people who are
still making that comparison I'd like
you to consider that
but you don't know what on the floor
vexing a coronavirus you don't know what
percent is gonna wind up getting it
nobody does and the experts don't know
either well that's not true but yeah
let's say it is true that the
overwhelming number of people who get it
don't die yeah okay yeah that's fine
unless you're the person who dies then
it's not so far
yeah the the nursing homes have seen in
many ways the most intense issue here
and when you think about where this even
started it started in a nursing home in
Washington of Washington the vulnerable
population our senior citizens people
with comorbidities compromised immune
systems and a nursing home is a
aggregation of those people and that's
how it started and that is where it is
most dangerous in the nursing homes I
understand that I understand the nursing
home staff has been doing doing the
people who staff these nursing homes
have been doing a fantastic job because
it really is very difficult and we had
to put some precautions in place that
are just so harsh I mean we can't have
we said no visitors to a nursing home
during this entire time I mean just
think how harsh that is right but all it
takes is one person to walk into that
nursing home with a virus and then
you're off to the races so we're doing
everything we can the nursing homes are
working very hard we also announced an
investigation with the Attorney General
and the Department of Health to make
sure the nursing homes are doing what
they need to do many of them are
privately run but this state can
regulate them they have to notify
families etc so we're doing an
investigation on that but remember the
basic premise of the nursing home the
nursing home can only accept or keep a
patient if if they can provide adequate
care for that patient if they have a
kovat patient or non kovat patient but
they can't provide adequate care for
that person it is their obligation to
transfer the person if they can't find
the place to transfer the person it's
their obligation to call the State
Department of Health and the State
Department of Health will transfer the
person we have facilities
for kovat nursing home residents we have
some facilities that are just Fork Ovid
positive nursing home residents so we
have those facilities available if a
nursing home can't care for a co vyd
resident called the Department of Health
the Department of Health will transfer
the patient period and that
responsibility is on the nursing home
they have to know who they can care for
and who they can't care for if they
can't care for them for any reason my
staff is out sick I don't have the PPE
I can't quarantine I can't isolate for
whatever reason they have an obligation
to call the State Department of Health
and say I have to transfer this person
and we have existing facilities and beds
for them but the nursing home has to
make that determination and if they are
caring for people or they have people
who they're not suited to care for then
they're violating the state policy and
that's part of what this investigation
is going to look at so I've said the
nursing homes before I say it again if
you cannot provide adequate care then
that person has no business being in
your nursing home and we do have
facilities and we do have beds that can
care for nursing home residents and do
it well and do it safely last point I'd
like to make the today we're talking
about what local government officials
have to do what each region has to do to
be ready May 15th is a possible
reopening if you're ready this is how
you're ready learning from the lessons
on the science on the facts but this is
a situation where yes government is
first and foremost in a position where
they have to make decisions and perform
and do it well and competence matters
and professionalism matters and will
hold government officials accountable
I want to be held accountable hold
government officials accountable but we
also need local officials we need our
hospital administrators to be a big part
of this and we need every citizen to be
part of this you know who's gonna keep
you safe you are you are not me you are
by your actions you know it's gonna keep
your family safe your family and you are
by being responsible and reasonable in
this situation and then you know how we
keep each other safe by our individual
responsibility and respect by wearing
the mask by maintaining the social
distancing that's how we get through
this everybody has a role to play here
there is no pointing fingers nobody's
been here before
it's no one else's job it's all of us
together and that's what has worked so
well so far we just have to stay at it
it's been an honor to be with you thank
you very much
[Music]